#+STARTUP: showeverything logdone
#+options: num:nil


Enclosures: stuff I stole from Wikipedia
of immense interest, I think.


http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category_theory

The study of categories is an attempt to capture
what is commonly found in various classes of related
mathematical structures.

[...]

Instead of focusing merely on the individual objects
possessing a given structure, as mathematical
theories have traditionally done, category theory
emphasizes the morphisms -- the structure-preserving
processes -- between these objects. It turns out that
by studying these morphisms, we are able to learn
far more about the structure of the objects than by
simply focusing on the structures alone.

[...] 

[...]A category is an axiomatic formulation of this
idea of relating mathematical structures to the
structure-preserving processes between them. A
systematic study of categories then allows us to
prove general results about any class of
mathematical structures and their processes which
satisfy the axioms of a category.

A category is itself a type of mathematical
structure, so we can look for processes which
preserve this structure in some sense. Such a
process is called a functor, and it associates to
every object of one category an object of another
category, and to every morphism in the first
category a morphism in the second. By studying
categories and functors, we are not just studying a
class of mathematical structures and the morphisms
between them, we are studying the relationships
between various classes of mathematical structure.

Many mathematical theories attempt to study a
particular type of structure by relating the
structure to another simpler, better understood
structure. For example, this is the central
underlying theme of algebraic topology -- very
difficult topological questions can be translated
into algebraic questions which are much easier to
solve. Certain "natural constructions", such as the
fundamental group of a topological space, can be
expressed as functors in this way. Different such
constructions are often "naturally related", and
this leads to the concept of natural transformation,
a way to "map" one functor to another. Throughout
mathematics, one encounters "natural isomorphisms",
things that are (essentially) the same in a
"canonical way". Many important constructions in
mathematics can be studied in this context.

[...]

Special categories called topoi can even serve as an
alternative to axiomatic set theory as the
foundation of mathematics. These broadly-based
foundational applications of category theory are
contentious; but they have been worked out in quite
some detail, as a commentary on or basis for
constructive mathematics.

-----

http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Topos

In the mathematical field of category theory, a
topos is a type of category that behaves like the
category of sheaves of sets on a topological space.

[...]

----- 

http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Higher-order_logic

In mathematics, higher-order logic is distinguished
from first-order logic in a number of ways.

One of these is the type of variables appearing in
quantifications; in first-order logic, roughly
speaking, it is forbidden to quantify over
predicates. See second-order logic for systems in
which this is permitted.

Another way in which higher-order logic differs from
first-order logic is in the constructions allowed in
the underlying type theory. A higher-order predicate
is a predicate that takes one or more other
predicates as arguments. In general, a higher-order
predicate of order n takes one or more (n - 1)th-
order predicates as arguments, where n > 1. A
similar remark holds for higher-order functions.

Higher-order logics are more expressive, but their
properties, in particular with respect to model
theory, make them less well-behaved for many
applications. By a result of GÃ¶del, classical
higher-order logic does not admit a (recursively
axiomatized) sound and complete proof calculus; this
defect can be repaired by using Henkin models.

See also

    * Higher-order grammar
    * Typed lambda calculus
    * Intuitionistic Type Theory

----- 

http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Table_of_mathematical_symbols

http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Internet_shorthand_notation

(Mathematical Alphanumeric Symbols)
http://www.unicode.org/charts/PDF/U1D400.pdf

http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mathematical_notation

[...]

Computerized notation

The rise of expression evaluators such as
calculators and slide rules were only part of what
was required to mathematicize civilization. Today,
keyboard-based notations are used for the e-mail of
mathematical expressions, the Internet shorthand
notation. The wide use of programming languages,
which teach their users the need for rigor in the
statement of a mathematical expression (or else the
compiler will not accept the formula) are all
contributing toward a more mathematical viewpoint
across all walks of life.

There is a part of mathematics which is not
algebraic, but which seems to use a different
faculty of the mind. For those people with such
minds and imaginations, like Isaac Newton's, if they
are to benefit from the wide availability of
mathematical devices, then they will need to be
served by more graphical, visual, aural, tactile,
and temporal modalities in notation, as a first
step.

[...]

-----

http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Model_theory

In mathematics, model theory is the study of the
representation of mathematical concepts in terms of
set theory, or the study of the models which
underlie mathematical systems. It assumes that there
are some pre-existing mathematical objects out
there, and asks questions regarding how or what can
be proven given the objects, some operations or
relations amongst the objects, and a set of axioms.

[...]

Definition

A model is formally defined in the context of some
language L. The model consists of two things:

   1. A universe set U which contains all the
   objects of interest (the "domain of discourse"),
   and

   2. a mapping from L to U (called the evaluation
   mapping or interpretation function) which has as
   its domain all constant, predicate and function
   symbols in the language.

A theory is defined as a set of sentences which is
consistent; often it is also defined to be closed
under logical consequence. For example, the set of
all sentences true in some particular model (e.g.
the reals) is a theory.

[...]

-----

http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hyperreals

In mathematics, particularly in non-standard
analysis and mathematical logic, hyperreal numbers
or nonstandard reals (usually denoted as *R) denote
an ordered field which is a proper extension of the
ordered field of real numbers R and which satisfies
the transfer principle. This principle allows true
first order statements about R to be reinterpreted
as true first order statements about *R.

An important property of *R is that it has
infinitely large as well as infinitesimal numbers,
where an infinitely large number is one that is
larger than all numbers representable in the form

    1 + 1 + \cdots + 1. 

However, in the 1960s Abraham Robinson showed how
infinitely large and infinitesimal numbers can be
rigorously defined and used to develop the field of
nonstandard analysis. Robinson developed his theory
nonconstructively, using model theory; however it is
possible to proceed using only algebra and topology,
and proving the transfer principle as a consequence
of the definitions. In other words hyperreal numbers
per se, aside from the use of them in nonstandard
analysis, have no necessary relationship to model
theory or first order logic.

[...]

The hyperreals can be developed either axiomatically
or by more constructively oriented methods. The
essence of the axiomatic approach is to assert (1)
the existence of at least one infinitesimal number,
and (2) the validity of the transfer principle. In
the following subsection we give a detailed outline
of a more constructive approach. This method allows
one to construct the hyperreals if given a set-
theoretic object called an ultrafilter, but the
ultrafilter itself cannot be explicitly
constructed.[...]

[...]

-----

http://www.cis.upenn.edu/~giorgi/cl.html

Computability Logic Homepage*


----- 

http://www.csc.villanova.edu/~japaridz/CL/gsoll.html

Game semantics
f(or)
linear logic? 
