#+STARTUP: showeverything logdone
#+options: num:nil

Aaron put together an abstract.  Things can be added to this.
Discussion can branch off from here.

--[[file:jcorneli.org][jcorneli]]

* Topics

Note: these minutes are kind of sparse because I only started taking
them about half way through.  See the log for a complete record.

LOGGED AT: http://aux.planetmath.org/logs/pm_board_meeting_2006-01-22.txt

PRESENT:

Logan, akrowne, djao (Galois), rspuzio (rsp), jcorneli, nathan
(unlord), mathcam, bloftin, drini, jwales, kim

GENERAL DISCUSSION:

 * discussion with Jimmy Wales (of Wikimedia)
  *  WP does not have members at the corporate level
  *  WP has bylaws available under GFDL:
    http://wikimediafoundation.org/wiki/Wikimedia_Foundation_bylaws
  *  WP has voting but not by official "members"
  * community at large votes for some board members.
 * lots of discussion on licensing issues (see log, and below)

DECISIONS/ACTION ITEMS:

 * jwales will try to connect us with WP's legal team
 * we will stick with non-membership corp. structure for now

 * bounty committee formed: Aaron, Logan, Ray.
  *  Ray will draft details on wiki
  *  first meeting, ~2 weeks from now
  *  draft bounties on wiki until then
  *  any akrowne work will have to be extra-bounty and require
    board approval.
  *  need to keep a little bit of money (~$500) from being spent on
    bounties

 * need to put "Reasons we need funding" on the PM donate page (or a
  wiki page); need to make how much money we HAVE and how much we
  NEED visible.

 * Not all board members integrated with Wiki.  Like mailing lists--
  better for discussion.

 * Logan created a google group for mailing list discussion.
  *  TODO: announce it more widely on PM, AM
  *  http://groups.google.com/group/planetmath

 * for dev discussion, could create a Noosphere/PM project on Savannah,
  which comes with mailing list.

 * we need to get legal experts to look into copyright pact!

 * keep discussing lawsuit insurance with WP

 * djao a prime example of someone who does not want to switch to PD
  (but acknowledges problems in FDL)

 * look at debian legal for discussion of FDL problems

 * board meetings to stay quarterly for now

 * think about licensing, specifically, making something BSD-like
  (attribution-only) default for new contributions.
  *  djao would be amenable to dual-licensing in this case
  *  notion of giving PM "control" something we want to avoid

* Discussion: Licensing

 * [[file:Public Domain.org][Public Domain]]
 * [[file:BSD.org][BSD]]
 * [[file:FDL2.org][FDL2]]
 * [[file:CC.org][CC]]
 * ... 

* Discussion: Goals

We somehow let overt discussion of [[file:PlanetMath Goals.org][PlanetMath Goals]] slip during
the meeting (i.e., we didn't do it).  Not to say that some goals can't
be figured out from the discussion (including possibly the summary
above).  But I think it would be very wise to work on the discussion
of these issues now, particularly in light of the new
[[file:PlanetMath whitepaper for potential partners.org][PlanetMath whitepaper for potential partners]] we've been
working on, but also in light of the engagement of a [[file:bounty committee.org][bounty committee]]
and the fact that bounties are starting to be offered. --[[file:jcorneli.org][jcorneli]]
