#+STARTUP: showeverything logdone
#+options: num:nil

Third board meeting, Q4 2006.

* Time and Place

Tentative date: /sometime in mid-December?/

The meeting will take place by IRC (Internet Relay Chat. Channel
#planetmath, server irc.endernet.org).

(Don't know how to get on IRC? Check out [[file:PM Real Time Chat.org][PM Real Time Chat]])

* Record

Log and minutes will be posted here.

* Agenda

Major topics for discussion are:

 * making an official version of our draft "development agenda" 
 * partnerships 
 * content exchange with wikipedia
 * automatic linker work
 * moving forward on multiple licenses, relicensing
 * contributor pact, bylaws and legal advice
 * filling in details in bylaws
 * paying memberships and voting 
 * paid content/meta-work 
 * free encyclopedia 
 * planning a planetmath summit
 * cyberinfrastructure grant strategizing
 * building out the "books" section

* Supporting documents

 * Draft of !PlanetMath Development Agenda: ([http://planetx.cc.vt.edu/AsteroidMeta/PlanetMath_Development_Agenda wiki version]/[http://planetmath.cc.vt.edu/~jcorneli/agenda-Nov9.pdf pdf version])
 * [[file:PlanetMath ByLaws 2.0.org][PlanetMath ByLaws 2.0]] 
 * [[file:Second Draft of Pact.org][Second Draft of Pact]] (contributor pact)
 * [[file:PM Goals And Philosophy (Draft).org][PM Goals And Philosophy (Draft)]]
 * [[file:PM Licenses.org][PM Licenses]]

* People

Who plans to attend?

 * [[file:akrowne.org][akrowne]]
 * [[file:jac.org][jac]]
 * ...

* Discussion

I think it might be good to make a more detailed agenda for the meeting, something
with prose, that people on the board could read and thereby come to an understanding
about the the different sides of the major issues facing PM at present.

--[[file:jcorneli.org][jcorneli]]

----

I think we should have draft proposals for consideration on the following items:


----
[[file:PM_Board_Meetings.org][PM_Board_Meetings]]
