#+STARTUP: showeverything logdone
#+options: num:nil

First board meeting (ever!), first quarter 2006.

 * [[file:PlanetMath Board Meeting--Q1 2006--After party and discussion.org][PlanetMath Board Meeting--Q1 2006--After party and discussion]]

* Time and Place

Held: *January 22nd, 2006, 9pm EST*.

The meeting took place by IRC (Internet Relay Chat.  Channel
#planetmath, server irc.endernet.org). 

(Don't know how to get on IRC? Check out [[file:PM Real Time Chat.org][PM Real Time Chat]])

* Record

A log of the meeting is available at: http://aux.planetmath.org/logs/pm_board_meeting_2006-01-22.txt

Minutes are available here: http://aux.planetmath.org/logs/pm_board_meeting_minutes_2006-01-22.txt

* Agenda

Major topics for discussion are:

; composition of board and non-profit : 
Who should be on the board? what about the executive?
and members?
; composition of nonprofit administration : 
I'd like to nominate myself for some kind position
with a salary.  The actual amount isn't that important, but I'd like to
get something set up so that if PM starts to get more money, I start to get a living
wage. --[[file:jcorneli.org][jcorneli]]
; structure of budget :
what percentage to overhead, what percentage to projects, what percentage to reserves, etc.
; [[file:PlanetMath Fundraising.org][PlanetMath Fundraising]] :
We've seen a few wiki pages related to the ideas here, but I think
the whole idea needs re-coordinating. /The wikipage
[[file:PlanetMath whitepaper for potential partners.org][PlanetMath whitepaper for potential partners]] is recommended
reading for everyone participating in the meeting!/ --[[file:jcorneli.org][jcorneli]]
; strategies for getting more dev-level help (either for hire, volunteer, or paid by third-parties) :
This parallels the issue of fundraising; also see the "market" item described below.
; re-writing bylaws :
Maybe have draft to discuss.  (What is the outline?)
; relationship between executive, board, and member community :
In particular, there is some concern over lack of direct communication between board and other volunteers
(does this have something to do with individual preferences for communication media, or is there
something else, possibly deeper, going on here?). Cf. [[file:communication vs media.org][communication vs media]]
; continuing previous item, how should membership work, and when members vote, etc. :
; how priorities are decided and projects selected :
See the [[file:marketize feature requests.org][marketize feature requests]] page for some work/thinking on this.
Note that the previous two items take a basically "governmental" approach, but this
"marketizing" idea takes a basically "economic" approach -- potentially to similar
questions.
; what are current development priorities? :
; what are long-term plans of the organization :
One of the things people should at least be /aware of/ is the fact
that PM's use of the FDL (or any copyleft license) is in question, in the sense that a number
of us are beginning to doubt whether this is actually a good choice for PM.
Ray and Aaron are working on this issue in a [[file:First Monday Paper--The Fog of Copyleft|paper.org][First Monday Paper--The Fog of Copyleft|paper]],
although I don't know whether they have come to any specific conclusions 
that pertain to the future of PM vis a vis licensing.  My own sense is that
we need to think more about when licensing is a good idea (if ever)
and whether there are any good alternatives at all.  There are plenty
of pragmatic points to consider here.  This is just one of many "long-term"
questions that face the organization right now! --[[file:jcorneli.org][jcorneli]]
; indemnification and legal protection : 
The main points of discussion here are "lawsuit insurance" and a contributor contract 
(copyright pact).  See comments below, but to sum up, it may be too early to come to final decisions about this item.
; ... :

* Supporting documents

 * [[file:PlanetMath ByLaws 2.0.org][PlanetMath ByLaws 2.0]] (need to start)
 * [[file:Second Draft of Pact.org][Second Draft of Pact]] (contributor pact)

* People

Who plans to attend?

 * [[file:akrowne.org][akrowne]]
 * [[file:jcorneli.org][jcorneli]] (and see discussion below)
 * [[file:rspuzio.org][rspuzio]]
 * [[file:bloftin.org][bloftin]]
 * [[file:alozano.org][alozano]] (possibly, see below)

* Discussion

We can begin discussing specific issues from the agenda here in
subsections.  The more we have threshed out before the meeting the
more we can accomplish. --[[file:akrowne.org][akrowne]] Fri Jan 6 19:26:34 UTC 2006

Or, perhaps we can make an ongoing, informal meeting on the
wiki -- if it turns out that we can make decisions that way,
then IRC may just be a fun sidelight, and not a necessary
part of the decision-making process. :) --[[file:jcorneli.org][jcorneli]] Jan 6

Can anybody attend or board members only? --[[file:bloftin.org][bloftin]]

My understanding is that ordinary members would at least be welcome as
spectators, if not being allowed to contribute to the discussion.
However, Aaron will have to give a definitive answer on exactly to
what extent ordinary members can participate in the
meeting. --[[file:rspuzio.org][rspuzio]]

(moved) I think that this topic (the contributor pact) really needs to
be redone from first principles so we might want to hold off from
putting this item on the agenda just now or discuss it at a more
fundamental level --- I am pretty sure it woulds not be a good idea to
discuss adopting anything like the current draft because it seems
irrelevant now.  When we drafted the document, we were not fully aware
of the implications of the Digital Millenium Act, so we thought that
the way to get some semblanbce of common-carrier status was by means
of a user agreement.  But now that we looked at the Digital Millenium
Act more closely and have a designated agent, this may no longer be
relevant --- the "take-down safe harbor" grants us much of the common
carrier status we hoped for.  To be sure, the idea of a contributor
agreement which clarifies the right, obligations, and liabilities of
the users and the staff may still be a good idea, but it would be a
much different sort of document from our present draft, so we might
need to move the discussion back to the level of deciding what is
needed and drafting a suitable document.  --[[file:rspuzio.org][rspuzio]]

On the contributor pact, I think we still need one.  It may be a lot
simpler now based on leveraging the DMCA.  But I would still like to
see the ownership system formally enshrined in a contract.  I think
this better models the situation.  Surely we can discuss this at the
meeting, even if we don't have a draft yet.

On who can attend, the answer is: anyone. --[[file:akrowne.org][akrowne]] Sat Jan 7 23:28:13 UTC 2006

I might attend the meeting, although I would prefer it the meeting was
ongoing in the wiki as suggested by jcorneli. --[[file:alozano.org][alozano]] Jan 11.

I am not really sure a meeting on the wiki can reasonably be held.
[But certainly, anyone] is free to start commenting on agenda items or
other things here[!]  The IRC meeting provides a real-time component
which will be necessarily missing from the Wiki.  I'm not even sure an
asynchronous meeting would qualify as a "meeting" by the muster of the
corporation commission.  Also, we are having problems getting everyone
involved in this format.  Some are more inclined to IRC.  In sum, if
you want to participate the Wiki way, you can, and if you want to
participate via IRC, you can do that too! --[[file:akrowne.org][akrowne]] Wed Jan 11
20:20:55 UTC 2006  

(Editorial: I made it clear that the fact that anyone can contribute
to the discussion from the wiki is a good thing, and not a reason for
not holding the meeting on the wiki. --[[file:jcorneli.org][jcorneli]])

I think that if we can make the important decisions -- or at least
sketch out their cases -- on the wiki, that should satisfy most of the
organization's needs (possibly just modulo a final decision made using
some other medium).  Personally, I think the wiki is a very practical
medium for enlightened debate and discussion.  I don't have anything
against "real time" (or better put, synchronous) discussion media or
realistic simulations thereof, however, apparently there are some who
dislike the wiki.  Like Aaron said, we can use both, and like he said
way above, the better spelled out the "agenda" is by the time the IRC
meeting takes place, the more can be accomplished at that time.  My
guess is that this will work something like the distinction between
"executive" and "legislative" in typical government structures.  The
legislative branch (wiki) comes up with the suggestions, and the
executive branch (IRC or whatever) either certifies the plans or asks
them to be rewritten.  I can see that problems might occur if plans
are being drawn up by the executive branch without any input from
outsiders (pseudo-legislators or other contributors).  I also worry
that this problematic situation may have been going on for some months
-- since while Aaron has talked with people in both the wiki and IRC
groups, the two groups have had very little /direct/ interaction.
By the way, don't misunderstand what I said about separate branches of
government to mean that I think that the separate branches should be
/distinct/ branches; on the contrary, I think we would all like to
see more co-participation and sharing between the different parties
interested and involved with !PlanetMath.  I don't think anything as
simple as a choice of preferred communication medium is any excuse for
a break-down (or stillbirth) of communication between different
groups.  If IRC fans really hate wiki, I'm happy to meet them more
than half way, on their own IRC channel.  But I would very much like
to get some feedback from them on /why/ wiki is so hated (if that is
indeed what is going on).  I'll add something about this question to
the agenda. --[[file:jcorneli.org][jcorneli]]

Well said, Joe. But I'm not sure the fact is that our board members
/hate/ the wiki as much as they just don't have practices that lead
them to use it.  And practices are hard to change.
I'm probably the only one with an RSS feed to the
wiki, for instance, a fact which is instrumental in my interaction with
it.  But, as a heavy user of both IRC and the wiki, I consider both
indispensible.  To explain this in detail and provide justification
would be an extensive exercise, so I think it suffices for now that
we should have both formats because it is easy to do so. --[[file:akrowne.org][akrowne]]


Well, I just joined IRC for the first time, interesting medium of communication...  I'm curretly tyring to recruit for PP by answering questions on physics channels and then creating entries on PP.  My only concern would be how to keep records, wiki is good at that, is there a secretary on the board and a way to record the discussions and decisions? --[[file:bloftin.org][bloftin]]

Almost all IRC clients can log the sessions (in fact, I know of none that can't).  
I always log, so I can guarantee there will be a log.  At the end of the meeting, 
I will post the log on here. --[[file:akrowne.org][akrowne]] Sun Jan 15 03:05:47 UTC 2006

Please make sure the agenda is fleshed out asap!  The meeting is in only
a few days, and the agenda needs a brushing up at least. --[[file:jcorneli.org][jcorneli]]
