#+STARTUP: showeverything logdone
#+options: num:nil

Second board meeting, Q2 2006.

* Time and Place

Tentative date: *Sunday April 30rd 2006, 9pm EST*. 

The meeting will take place by IRC (Internet Relay Chat. Channel
#planetmath, server irc.endernet.org), and simultaneously by
long-distance telephone conference at 218-862-6100, access code
2718281828# if enough people are interested in this extra option.

(Don't know how to get on IRC? Check out [[file:PM Real Time Chat.org][PM Real Time Chat]])

 * [[file:Discussion of date and time of PMB2.org][Discussion of date and time of PMB2]]

* Record

Log and minutes will be posted here.

* Agenda

Major topics for discussion are:

 * proposing a structure for organizational decision making (will deal with how the board, officers, and voting members interact on decisions).
 * goals/vision (see the "Visions" document below)
 * proposing the creation of paid positions
 * multiple licenses and the viability of proposed PM licenses (should know more by this point)
 * putting in a contributor pact
 * creating a membership (goal for getting this done by?  we should at least have all active "working members" formalized soon).
 * ...

[[file:Discussion of agenda of PMB2.org][Discussion of agenda of PMB2]]

* Supporting documents

 * [[file:PM Goals And Philosophy (Draft).org][PM Goals And Philosophy (Draft)]]
 * [[file:Sketch of a Possible Organizational Structure.org][Sketch of a Possible Organizational Structure]]
 * [[file:PlanetMath ByLaws 2.0.org][PlanetMath ByLaws 2.0]] (should embody decision-making procedures) 
 * [http://www.ma.utexas.edu/~jcorneli/a/plan.pdf draft of a strategic plan]
 * [[file:PlanetMath Roles.org][PlanetMath Roles]]
 * [[file:Second Draft of Pact.org][Second Draft of Pact]] (contributor pact)
 * [[file:PM Licenses.org][PM Licenses]]

* People

Who plans to attend?

 * [[file:akrowne.org][akrowne]]
 * [[file:alozano.org][alozano]]
 * [[file:jcorneli.org][jcorneli]]
 * ...

* Discussion

I think we should have draft proposals for consideration on the following items:

 1. vision (whitepaper etc.)
 1. new bylaws (decision-making dynamics)
 1. positions/offices (e.g. CEO/aaron, COO/ray, CKO/joe, CFO/bonnie)
 1. PM licenses (already have; need to get legal expert on)
 1. copyright pact (ditto, though probably could use some more work)

--[[file:akrowne.org][akrowne]] Mon Mar 13 19:43:55 UTC 2006

On the topic of "proposing a structure for organizational decision
making ([to] deal with how the board, officers, and voting members
interact on decisions)", I haven't drafted such a thing yet, although
I do mention the utility of figuring this stuff out in my working
draft of the overall strategic plan.  How should we go about working
this out?  It seems to me that the board might want to be involved
with this; while we could work on this question /before/ the board
meeting, I don't know if we'll be able to sketch out a useful proposal
without making a significant investment of effort, and I don't know if
this effort is available right now.  Such a proposal should be made
after some serious study; by the board meeting, it may be that the
best thing we'll be able to come up with is a proposal to write a
proposal. --[[file:jcorneli.org][jcorneli]]

I have two comments on the !ByLaws:

: 1. to create free educational content in mathematics in 
order to liberate knowledge and improve understanding

This seems to imply that PM will concentrate on producing 
original content. If we want to promote free culture, I think a 
central part of that is demonstrating the benefits of recycling existing 
mathematical content. There's already a lot of such material on 
the web. However, to use it, PM needs to define the 
level of "copyright hygiene" we expect from users. As an example, 
do we welcome Wikipedia entries that are licensed under the FDL? 
Do we accept content that is PD is US, but possibly copyrighted
elsewhere?

If we allow wiki-entries, it would be questionable to hold PM
users personally responsible for the content (as in the latest pact). 
On the other hand, if we do not allow this, this is something 
that should be stated explicitly. I think it is fair to assume
that over time, the amount of off-site free content will grow.
If so, this question will become more and more important.  
It is also a strategic question that could change the nature 
of PM a lot. Therefore it could be good if the board could
address the question. IMO the issues of multiple licenses 
and the contributor pact depend largely on the board's stand on 
this issue. 

: Unless otherwise stated, board meetings shall be open to members.

In what kind of cases should board meetings be closed?

--[[file:matte.org][matte]]

The standard response to the first point, I think, is that PM
should think about what it can add to a broader commons.  I think
this question gets right to the heart of additional important questions:
what is the value of being 'free', and what kind of 'free' do we value
most?  Deciding on our role with respect to a broader commons (and sometimes several
commonses) does indeed seem important when we talk about organizational goals.
--[[file:jcorneli.org][jcorneli]]



** See also

 * [[file:Discussion of copyright pact for PMB2.org][Discussion of copyright pact for PMB2]]
 * [[file:Discussion of creating paid positions for PMB2.org][Discussion of creating paid positions for PMB2]]

----
[[file:PM_Board_Meetings.org][PM_Board_Meetings]]
