#+STARTUP: showeverything logdone
#+options: num:nil

Log:  http://aux.planetmath.org/logs/budget_meeting_2006-06-18.txt

Abbreviated minutes (by akrowne):

attendees:

- David
- Aaron
- Joe
- Logan
- Anthony

notes:

 * we need to improve the compilation of financial stats
  * GNUcash? -> logan will start GNUCash data using the latest
spreadsheet.
  * we need to establish a system to get Bonnie's spreadsheets into
updated GNUCash, ifwe pursue this route

 * financial data needs to be more open and available
  * we'll work on this part-in-parcel with the GNUCash conversion

 * considerable debate about the priority of fundraising
  * everyone seems to agree now it is necessary, but there is
disagreement on how to proceed without more precise estimates of
cost-benefit
  * some estimates cooked up (e.g., ~$1000 per grant proposal, but this
doesn't help with non-grant fundraising)

 * budget time intervals
  * fiscal year is the calendar year
  * for now, we'll budget through the rest of the year (approx 1/2)
  * we should set the budget at some regular time period; e.g.,
biannually or quarterly (to be decided within the next few meetings)

 * aaron requests a specific budget for fundraising for the rest of the
year
  * $2500 converged upon as executive discretionary budget for
fundraising
  * probably $1500-$2000 will go out on bounties
  * looks like we will have a few $k to save given the usual revenue
levels

 * some mention of jcorneli proposed fundraising bounties
  * these should be discussed more widely by the bounty committee soon.
