#+STARTUP: showeverything logdone
#+options: num:nil

[[file:akrowne.org][akrowne]] and [[file:jcorneli.org][jcorneli]] were visiting for about 10 days recently;
[[file:rspuzio.org][rspuzio]] dropped in, and we met with [[file:unlord.org][unlord]] and [[file:bonnie.org][bonnie]] as well as a number of other
interesting people.

More details and reflections will be posted here in due course.

: Please do! Can't wait to hear. --[[file:alozano.org][alozano]]

:: OK - don't worry!  I was traveling some more, and am finally home.  I'll write up my summary shortly.  --[[file:jcorneli.org][jcorneli]]

*  Activities

** CNI presentation

 * Emory digital libraries work on the [http://www.metacombine.org/ MetaCombine] project presented by [[file:akrowne.org][akrowne]]
 * [[file:jcorneli.org][jcorneli]] attended, learned about metasearch and clustering (and gave some comments on 'separating')
 * various networking with NSF personnel, others
 * here is a [http://br.endernet.org/~akrowne/metacombine/documents/cni_pres/slides/0.html link] to the presentation given by [[file:akrowne.org][akrowne]].

**  Math Gateway meeting
 * [[file:akrowne.org][akrowne]] and [[file:jcorneli.org][jcorneli]] present as official representatives 
of PM, [[file:rspuzio.org][rspuzio]] also present for the first day of the one-and-a-half-day meeting
 * discussions with Jim Pitman about the Math Atlas project
 * discussions with John Borwein about matters of common interest (e.g. mirroring PM!)

**  informal meeting with nathan egge (unlord), akrowne, jcorneli, rspuzio

 * nathan emphasized importance of coming up a clear statement of organizational goals
 * discussed PM fundraising efforts and possible separate-but-related money-making efforts

**  meeting between bonnie, akrowne and jcorneli

 * discussed PM finances accounting/documentation
 * bonnie now set up to use IRC

**  various strategizing/planning/technical meetings between akrowne and jcorneli, some rspuzio

 * Joe has an improved understanding of Noosphere structure and the
similarities and differences between it and Arxana, as well as some idea of
the steps to take to help further these two systems
 * Aaron, similarly, has improved understanding of Arxana (we talked
some about design issues relevant for future phases of Arxana development
and particularly about multi-user operation and multi-client sharing)
 * preliminary discussion of goals and related strategies
 * talked about importance of having a clear decision-making/action-taking organizational framework

* Trajectories

 * finish writing up the goal/strategy document (share at least some
mixed-down version of it with PM board before next meeting)
 * follow up with Lee Zia, who we didn't get to meet with (send him a solid copy of the above-mentioned document, discuss) 
 * follow up with John Borwein about mirroring (and read his interesting pi article!)
 * follow up with Don Albers about out-of-print MAA publications
 * continue work/discussions with Jim Pitman about Atlas collaboration
 * look into DOE or other funding for translations infrastructure/work
 * in terms of fundraising, focus especially on long-term sustainability (including e.g. member fees and services)
 * write up a draft of a "new admin's guide" for PM
 * work on Arxana/Noosphere, following up on the design points we discussed
(unique names, schemata, ...)

Also:

 * "Reality Conditions" looks like a fun math/SF book
 * We might want to talk to Robbie Robson of eduworks about ICM 2006

* Discussion

I don't know whether many of these activities were "official", but
these are the things we mainly spent our time working on.  As I had
hoped, I certainly feel refreshed in terms of my research work.  We
also seem to have made headway in the challenging organizational
matters we've been discussing.  Of course, meeting and talking with
previously un-met collaborators and potential future collaborators is
always fun and inspiring.  The general sentiment about money seems to
be that it has a snowball effect; if we can get some money coming in,
we'll be better set to get more money later.  I feel optimistic about
the first funding steps happening fairly soon.

--[[file:jcorneli.org][jcorneli]]
