#+STARTUP: showeverything logdone
#+options: num:nil

[[file:NSF Cyberinf 2007 core infrastructure questions|I was talking.org][NSF Cyberinf 2007 core infrastructure questions|I was talking]] about
ontology as /done/ by philosophers -- not stating that I think that
there actually is /"an ontology"/ out there, although I do think we
all work with the assumption that there is "a shared world out there",
and I admit that this is is the basis of a simple "ontology".  I was
taking these things for granted, and talking about the mapping of "the
world" from this simple ontology into, well, /the world/ that it
presupposes, and saying the image -- whatever that stuff is -- is the
basic infrastructure of existence that we have to work with.  As
questionable as all of this thinking may be, one thing should now be
clear: I wasn't talking about there being any sort of "ontology" qua
ontological structure, that was any more complicated than this simple
one here, and even this simple one I don't require to have as a
preordained "part of reality", it is just an observation I happen to
be making right now for a rather ad hoc purpose -- namely because I
want to draw attention to the simple models of computation that
constitute the "theory of knowledge" -- of whatever latinate
designation -- which underly systems like Arxana.  Basically I wanted
to say that implementations of these models are our shared
infrastructure -- now speaking in a straightforward technological
language -- and that we can do better by introducing a slightly
perturbed extended model.

--[[file:jcorneli.org][jcorneli]]
